# Queue adaptors as external plugins

We have the possibility to have a queue adaptor as an external project and to use it as a plugin to ArmoniK.Core when needed. More about adaptors is available [here](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.Core/blob/main/.docs/content/1.concepts/7.adaptors.md). Using a queue adaptor as an external plugin was possible thanks to dynamic loading of adaptors, and the use of docker images.

### Loading queue adaptor into a C# project

ArmoniK.Core is based on C# projects where queue adaptors are dynamically loaded. Dynamic assembly loading allows to create dotnet applications with plugins. We will refer to the application to which the plugins will be connected as the hosting application.

The hosting application should define an interface that all plugins need to implement. This interface serves as a base for each plugin. In our case, the base interface that should be implemented in any plugin is in NuGet package [ArmoniK.Core.Base](https://www.nuget.org/packages/ArmoniK.Core.Base/). Any plugin should have a reference to this package.

### Packing a plugin

Once the queue adaptor is implemented, we need to pack it to be loaded in ArmoniK.Core. To pack the plugin to ArmoniK.Core, we modify the docker images of the polling agent and the submitter. We should create two images: one based on a specific version of the polling agent, with the plugin project added on top, and the other based on a specific version of the submitter image, also with the plugin project added on top.

This is an example of docker file that allows you to build a new image consisting of the image of polling agent with your plugin.

```dockerfile

FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:6.0 AS mypluginimage
WORKDIR /src
COPY . .
WORKDIR "/src/MyPlugin/"
RUN dotnet publish "MyPlugin.csproj" -c Release -o /app/publish/myplugin /p:UseAppHost=false

FROM dockerhubaneo/armonik_pollingagent:0.14.3 AS final
COPY --from=mypluginimage /app/publish/plugin /plugins/myplugin
```

In this file, we first copy the source files of the project `MyPlugin`, then we compile the project using [`dotnet publish`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-publish). The files resulting from `dotnet publish` command are saved in the folder `/app/publish/myplugin` in the image `mypluginimage`  . After that, we start from `dockerhubaneo/armonik_pollingagent:0.14.3` as a base image , and copy the plugin application files from `/app/publish/myplugin` in the image  `mypluginimage` to the folder `/plugins/myplugin` in the resulting image.

In that way, the resulting image consisted of the image `dockerhubaneo/armonik_pollingagent:0.14.3` plus the plugin project. The same is to be done to build a second image that starts from the submitter image `dockerhubaneo/armonik_control:0.14.3` and adds the plugin.

### Connecting a plugin to ArmoniK.Core

Now that the images containing the plugin are ready, you can deploy ArmoniK.Core locally using these two images. To know how to deploy ArmoniK.Core locally, see [Local deployment of ArmoniK.Core](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.Core/blob/main/.docs/content/1.concepts/1.local-deployment.md). To do so, you are provided environment variables in the `justfile` to modify in order to use specific images. You will need to change the values of the variables : `POLLING_AGENT_IMAGE` and`SUBMITTER_IMAGE` to pass the new images of polling agent and submitter that you created with your plugin.

You may need to pass environment variables that are specific to the plugin. To do so, you can overwrite the variable: `TF_VAR_custom_env_vars` and fill it with your variables.  These environment variables help to complete the configuration to be able to use your plugin. The two main parameters that you will need are the path of plugin assembly in the containers and the name of the class that implements `IDependencyInjectionBuildable`.

```shell
export TF_VAR_custom_env_vars='{ "Components__QueueAdaptorSettings__ClassName" = "MyPlugin.MyClassName", "Components__QueueAdaptorSettings__AdapterAbsolutePath" = "/plugins/myplugin/MyPlugin.dll" }'
```

