
# How to execute tests in ArmoniK.Core?

## Unit tests independent of deployment

ArmoniK.Core employs the [Nunit framework](https://nunit.org/) for all its unit tests. A first option is to execute them directly in an IDE compatible with the framework. The second option is to open a terminal, go to the folder where the test project is located and do:

```shell
dotnet test
```

## Unit tests that need partial deployment

Before test execution, you need a partial deployment that sets up the container running the service that the test aims to target.
For example, for the case of ArmoniK.Core.Adapters.RabbitMQ.Tests, execute:

```shell
just queue=rabbitmq deployTargetQueue
```

For ArmoniK.Core.Adapters.LocalStorage.Tests deploy with local object storage:

```shell
just object=local deployTargetObject
```

And so you can execute the corresponding tests:

- via your code editor
- or in your command line, go to the folder where the test project is located and do:

```shell
dotnet test
```

## Integration tests

HtcMock, Stream and Bench are integration tests that need a Core deployment. To be able to run these tests, you need first to deploy ArmoniK.Core with the appropriate values for the parameter `worker`: htcmock, stream or bench. If you don't specify any value for this parameter, it's set to htcmock by default.

### Htcmock

The default deployment is done with htcmock worker:

```shell
just build-deploy
```

After this deployment, there is a `just` recipe that allows to build the docker image to test htcmock worker, you can use this recipe to build the image:

```shell
just tag=<tag> buildHtcmockClient
```

The tag parameter is the tag of the image to be built. If you don't specify any tag, the tag will be `0.0.0.0-local`. You can choose the tag of an image that exists locally, or an image of another version.

Finally execute the test using:

```shell
docker run --net armonik_network --rm \
            -e HtcMock__NTasks=100 \
            -e HtcMock__TotalCalculationTime=00:00:00.100 \
            -e HtcMock__DataSize=1 \
            -e HtcMock__MemorySize=1 \
            -e HtcMock__EnableFastCompute=true \
            -e HtcMock__SubTasksLevels=1 \
            -e HtcMock__Partition=TestPartition0 \
            -e GrpcClient__Endpoint=http://armonik.control.submitter:1080 \
             dockerhubaneo/armonik_core_htcmock_test_client:TAG
```

You will need to replace `TAG` by the tag of the image `armonik_core_htcmock_test_client` you want to test.

### Stream

Deploy using stream worker:

```shell
just worker=stream build-deploy
```

Now, you can execute the tests using your code editor, or via the command line. In the latter case, go to the folder where the tests are located and type:

```shell
dotnet test
```

Another option is to use the recipe to build the docker image for stream worker:

```shell
just tag=<tag> buildStreamClient
```

Then:

```shell
docker run --net armonik_network --rm \
            -e Partition=TestPartition0 \
            -e GrpcClient__Endpoint=http://armonik.control.submitter:1080 \
            dockerhubaneo/armonik_core_stream_test_client:TAG
```

Don't forget to replace `TAG` by the tag of your image `armonik_core_stream_test_client`.

### Bench

Deploy using bench worker:

```shell
just worker=bench build-deploy
```

Build the docker image:

```shell
just <tag=tag> buildBenchClient
```

Execute the tests using:

```shell
docker run --net armonik_network --rm \
            -e BenchOptions__NTasks=200 \
            -e BenchOptions__TaskDurationMs=100 \
            -e GrpcClient__Endpoint=http://armonik.control.submitter:1080 \
            dockerhubaneo/armonik_core_bench_test_client:TAG
```

Consider replacing `TAG` by the tag of your image `armonik_core_bench_test_client`.
