

# Project components

This page intends to describe the different software projects and components used for ArmoniK internals. To learn how to install or use ArmoniK, please see these repositories:

  - install: [ArmoniK](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/armonik)
  - use: [ArmoniK.Samples](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.Samples)


## Common Library

- **ArmoniK.Common** provides the components required by all the other compononents of ArmoniK.

## Control

Different projects are available in the control plan:

- **ArmoniK.Control.Submitter** is a web server providing the gRPC services required by the SubmitterService client from SDK. It provides the following services:

  - Session creation
  - Task submission
  - Results retrieving
  - Task cancellation
  - Session cancellation

- **ArmoniK.Control.Monitor (not yet available)** is a web server providing the gRPC services
required by the MonitorService client from SDK. It provides the followin services:

  - List every sessions and tasks
  - Count the sessions and task per status
  - Get the execution details for the tasks

- **ArmoniK.Control.ResourceManager (not yet available)** is a web server providing gRPC
services required by the ResourceManager client from SDK. It provides the following services:

  - Upload new resources
  - Download new resources
  - List every available resources
  -  Delete resources

- **ArmoniK.Control.Autoscaling (not yet available)** is a process that regularly computes metrics used to determine the number of POD instances required on the grid. This will then be used by Kubernetes to start/stop compute nodes (on elastic configurations such as managed K8s service on cloud).

## Compute Plan Components

From a software enginnering point of view, the compute plan relies on three components:

- **ArmoniK.Compute.PollingAgent** implements a ArmoniK.DevelopmentKit.Gridlib.GRPC client.
It acts as a proxy between the gridlib agent container and the rest of the ArmoniK system.
Using such a proxy agent allows all the ArmoniK logic to be implemented independantly of
the Gridlib agent. Hence handling an new agent to handle new languages will be easier.

- Other companion containers for the gridlib agent container Such cantainers could provide the following services:

  - setting up secrets for the POD
  - forward the logs to a log cypher (ex: ELK or a cloud equivalent)
  - host a cache on each node used (required a deamon set to be really efficient)
